The meek will inherit the earth.
We are all familiar with those words, aren't we, from Psalm 37, verse 11?
Now, doubt we've used them in the ministry to hope others have a hope for the future.
But what does it really mean for someone to be meek?
Well, we get a hope with regard to the definition.
If we turn to the words of our Lord Jesus and is recorded in Matthew, chapter 5, and verse 5,
so Matthew 5 and verse 5.
And here Jesus is recorded as saying,
Happy are the mild tempered since they will inherit the earth.
You'll notice there's a slightly different expression that Jesus used here as recorded in Greek,
and that is being mild tempered.
If we look at this study note, we'll notice a very interesting comment.
It says, the Greek term does not imply a cowardice or weakness.
In the Septuragant, the word was used as an equivalent for a Hebrew word
that can be translated meek or humble.
So we see because, even though Jesus spoke in Hebrew, but it was recorded in Greek,
this translation of the word mild tempered is there in the text.
And mild tempered helps us a little to understand the word meek.
Mild tempered means not hot tempered.
It doesn't mean saying someone is cold either.
It just means that they're balanced with how they handle the reaction to things.
The inside volume makes this comment.
Being meek or mild tempered enables a person to endure injury with patience,
without irritation, without resentment, or of indicative retaliation.
So that's what's involved with being meek.
The watchtower from which the comments are taken reminds us that no one in this sinful world
is born with meekness.
It's something that we need to develop, and it's something that we need to keep on working on.
For example, our text refers to Moses.
Now you'd notice there in the scripture, it doesn't just say Moses was meek.
It doesn't just say Moses was the meekest man.
What does it say?
He was by far the meekest man.
Now that's very interesting.
We'd all like to have that set of us, wouldn't we?
But when we look at what happened just toward the end of the 40 years in the wilderness,
we see that Moses reacted badly.
And what was it that caused him to do so?
It was because of his reaction to persons who frustrated him, irritated him,
those who it seemed always rejected the word of Jehovah.
So what's the lesson in this verse today?
Well, our meekness, too, can be challenged.
In a similar way, it can be in the frustrations of dealings with others.
Or even in these difficult times in which we're living now,
seeing shortages of food and medicine, and perhaps seeing persons with their shopping trolleys
full of items that we know they shouldn't have got so many things.
But here they are, getting away with all this produce and so on.
And yet here we are, we don't have enough.
Well, that can be a test of meekness.
Looking at television programs and seeing what the world leaders are saying,
what politicians are arguing about can also be a test of meekness.
Seeing prejudice and unfairness in our lives.
All these things can be just like the situation with Moses.
We can be tested with regard to our meekness.
So now here's the question, what will help us to remain meek,
what will help us to develop meekness?
Well, the first thing we'd like to mention is a very important thing.
And that is for us to strengthen our trust in Jehovah and to put our hope in him.
So let's go back to the words that we mentioned in the beginning,
taken from Psalm 37.
Let's read the context, thinking of what we just discussed,
about the tests that we may face now or even in the future that may test our meekness.
So Psalm 37, let's read verses 7 through 11,
keep silent before Jehovah and wait expectantly for him.
Do we see the key to maintaining meekness?
Yes, waiting on Jehovah.
Then it goes on to say, do not be upset by the man who succeeds in carrying out his schemes.
Let go of anger and abandon rage.
Do not become upset and turn to doing evil.
For evil men will be done away with.
But those hoping in Jehovah will possess the earth.
Just a little while longer and the wicked will be no more.
You will look at where they were and they will not be there.
But the meek will possess the earth and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.
When we read these words, particularly at this time in which we're living now,
don't they take on deeper meaning for us?
Yes, for us to show meekness, we have to trust fully in Jehovah our God.
We have to leave things to him.
Some things we know will only be corrected by what Jehovah does in the near future.
So with that in mind, let's look at the book of Romans.
If we turn there together to Romans chapter 12, we're not as similar thought to the one
described in Psalm 37 is also here in Romans chapter 12.
And let's read together verses 17 through 19.
Return evil for evil to no one.
Take into consideration what is fine from the viewpoint of all men.
If possible, as far as it depends on you, be peaceable with all men.
Do not avenge yourselves, beloved.
But yield place to the wrath.
For it is written, vengeance is mine, I will replay, says Jehovah.
Now when it says yield place to the wrath, what does that mean?
Well, we know that the watchtowers hope this to see that that's Jehovah's wrath.
In other words, it's his right to rectify all these bad things that are happening.
So rather than presumptuously trying to jump in and write the wrong and try to react in a negative
way to all these bad things that are happening around us, some things we realize we have to leave
to Jehovah and allow him to correct the situation.
So that's the first point, strengthen our trust in Jehovah.
Yes, make sure our hope is in him.
The second point is that we need to actively develop humility.
Now, lady, if you check the book of Zephaniah chapter 2 and verse 3,
it mentions there that we need to seek meekness and it mentions meek ones in the earth.
But the footnote to that verse mentions humility, the humble ones.
So obviously then humility is also connected with having a mild temper and being meek.
How so? Well, humility means we respect others.
And of course included in that is our respective Jehovah, allowing him to do what he needs to do
rather than us presumptuously stepping in.
And our final thought, we could find in Proverbs chapter 6,
Proverbs 6, and verses 1 through 3, here it describes a person who is in a difficult situation.
In this case, they've put up a security for their neighbor and now it hasn't worked out well.
But what does it say to do in verse 3?
Do this my son and free yourself for you have fallen into the hand of your neighbor.
Now, how should we react in a situation like that?
It says go and humble yourself and urgently plead with your neighbor.
Now interestingly, the Hebrew expression here humble yourself literally means stamp yourself down.
So, do we see the lesson? When we're faced with a test like Moses was faced with,
what should we do? Stamp ourselves down. Yes, hold off that hot temper.
Yes, have full trust and hope in Jehovah and in that way we can be sure that he will view us as a meek person.